So let's get a version is kind of working.
Some of this is going to
be a little bit what we
saw before, but let's define our type.
Let's say the type is a counter action.
And the counteraction is
gonna have a type of,
let's say increment decrement cool and
say and we'll say the payload.
Payloads interesting this one, right.
There's a bunch of ways
you could go about this.
You could say that when they
hit increment and decrement,
it will dispatch a payload
that is a number of one.
Right?
We can start with that.
But we know no is a counter.
No is a strong word, but let's say
hypothetically in our current use
case increment decrement Increment
by one and decrement by one, so
I like having to put one
in every time it'll work.
But then I could just get down to set.
So let's try something here.
Let's say the payload is optional right?
If you're gonna set it to
a different number, yeah,
like you need to give us
a number to set it to.
However, if you're gonna
increment decrement,
we're gonna like change it by one,
it's gonna be fine.
Cool and we'll also say that the type
of counter state is a value of number.
All right, so
we've got that in place a reducer gonna
be pretty straightforward as well.
We'll say the state is counter state and
the time of an action is counter action.
All right, and I'll use a switch
statement this time just to change it up.
I understand that switch
statements are common for
reducers I for some reason,
just like conditionals that's my
personal taste will say in
the case of increment will return,
They will even like return instead
return will return value is state.value,
plus one fun fact about how
decrement's gonna work.
And then set will actually figure
out what the payload is and
we'll kind of see something
interesting here as well.
So, now that needs to be a call.
All right, and
we'll say the set is return value.
And really,
it's not even like we're just setting it
to numbers it's really gonna be we'll just
say it's like action dot payload like
whatever the person right that'll be good
Return, hold on,
Cool.
Here, our concern this could be undefined.
Right.
And especially if I did something like
let's say actually wanted to add it for
some reason, right,
you could see we're types.
We've got a little upset here.
Because maybe it's like eventually
one is like increment decrement
by a certain amount.
And, well, in this case, like it's like,
well, this could be undefined and
it's yelling at me about things.
And that's kinda interesting.
And like, I don't love this so far, but,
we'll go ahead, and we'll say that,
it's just action.payload for
now, or return state.
All right.
So in our counter we will grab
Our state and
our dispatch it's gonna be usereducer.
I'm going to be a reducer.
And again, like I could pass
in like something I explicitly
defined as counter state, but
as I demonstrated before,
as long as it fits that type,
TypeScript will be okay with it.
What are you angry about?
UseReducer without action.
Maybe it's not, let's see.
UseReducer should be fine.
Maybe the message.
Any I don't want any reducer.
Cuz it couldn't return a number or
undefined.
That's interesting.
Let's see what happens if I actually
typed the state shouldn't be an issue but
we'll find out probably
missed something small.
And someone noticed I need to
change decrement to minus one.
So before I get that.
One of the other questions
is can I use an enum for
this type scrip has an idea of enums.
In like my opinion, like it's a little
bit of an anti pattern because they add
a lot of complexity and abstraction and
I don't think is super helpful, right?
Like an enum is basically a value.
It's like it can be one
of these three states.
And those states under
the hood become numbers and
you kind of change them to something else.
For me, I think that the kind of having
the union types makes more sense.
I when I first learned TypeScript,
I was like, enums is cool I like enums.
And then every time I stopped using
enums have somewhat regretted it.
All right, so we change that to minus one.
Thank you for chat for helping me there.
But let's say a state is kind of
state action is counteraction.
We'll deal with it in a second.
I'm not quite sure what the issue is yet,
but
we're gonna push forward a little bit
we'll see if it resolves the issue.
All right, so then let's make some
helper functions for ourselves.
We'll say we've got
this idea of increment.
It's going to Type off.
Any six or dispatch.
Should work.
It's actually, it's over here
where I kind of winged it for
a little bit where some of
the issues are coming up.
But I can say, I'm interested in this.
This is somewhat fascinating to me.
Which is, if I just have increment and
decrement,
which are these places are just, they're
not dealing with the payload at all.
Everything works.
It's things that a little squirrely with
me when I just use the payload like this.
I have a hypothesis
which is an do this and
my hypothesis is because
this could be undefined.
It has confused everyone in everything.
Which one because value could now be
a number or it could be undefined.
And I think what happened was tie feels
like, it could be anything, right?
Now saying that either it exists, or
zero I guess that could be falsie.
But like since it defaults to zero,
I'm not super worried about it.
Everything comes back to normal again.
It's like okay, no matter what
value is getting set as a number
everything makes sense
in in the world again.
That's pretty cool.
So interesting little deviation there.
But yeah, again, TypeScript is trying
to help you if you confuse it, and
it can't figure out what's gonna go
on deterministically It's starts
to be not okay and refer like that's
a that's a fair bug that we would have
solved if we kept going forward.
But like, I definitely see a world
where it makes sense that like that was
brought to our attention pretty
early on because like yeah, like,
this isn't my first time doing this
exercise so I knew that we were gonna see
it through but if I was just
writing code like I got a ticket.
I was just working on stuff I might not
know that like eventually everything was
going to be okay just yet.
So he will make a decrement
As you can even see,
as I was typing it as I type got
a little upset there for a second.
It's like that.
It's not either increment decrement or
set.
And here we'll actually just
say that reset is going to just
set it to zero, all right.
So I'll just say it because I
make a point with that later,
and this case it will take some number and
N it's gonna be that number.
I'll fire it off to set with a value or
payload Of 0.
Right?
Everything's happy right now.
Cool.
So now we can go ahead and
we'll say that This will be reset.
So here we'll say,
make two just to make a point in a second.
I don't use one, we'll use reset,
where it's gonna be hard coded and
one that we pass in.
All right, nothing special here.
Increment,
Reset, Decrement.
All right, we've got a working.
Now let's make sure we haven't.
We're gonna set some buttons.
We got actually put that state of value
in there because even just change
it in the hood if we were hard
coded as zero is not gonna work.
Cool.
All right.